NetworkControllerGETRequests.md, before:

#### 1. Get List

- The URL is created from the name of the resource, for example `Employee`.

```undefined
/api/employee
```

- Every request, returns a JSON response, which is encapsulated in the parameter `data`:

```json
{
  "data": [
      {
          <object body>
      }
  ]
}
```

#### 2. Get List Pagination

- For setting the page, add the `page` parameter:

```undefined
/api/employee?page=2
```

- For setting how many results to display per a page, use the `limit` parameter. Default is 20 results per page.

```undefined
/api/employee?limit=20
```

- For some requests, it's more convenient to get all results at once. Use `limit=all` to disable pagination. Use with caution, it may increase response time and server load.

```undefined
/api/employee?limit=all
```

- For some special cases, for example, when using **aggregations** (see pt. 10), it's more convenient to completely remove the data in the response.
  Use `limit=empty` and the `data` object will be just an empty array (`[]`). No computations and transformations will be done.

```undefined
/api/employee?limit=empty
```

- Use the `pagination` parameter in the `meta` of every response, to help in the construction of paginated requests:

```json
"meta": {
  "pagination": {
      "total": 20,
      "count": 5,
      "per_page": 5,
      "current_page": 2,
      "total_pages": 4,
      "links": {
          "previous": "http://seodomains.docker/api/employee?page=1",
          "next": "http://seodomains.docker/api/employee?page=3"
      }
  }
}
```

#### 3. Get List Meta

- Using the parameter `showMeta` and setting it to **TRUE** or **1**, you can get useful information, about which parameters (and values) are allowed in the GET requests:

```
/api/employee?showMeta=1
```

- A parameter, `route_info` will be included in the `meta`.

- The allowed fields for `orderby`, `sort`,`limit`, `filters`, `query`, `resolve` and `aggregate` optional parameters are provided.

- This parameter is strictly informative and can be used safely with any other optional parameter.

- The `showMeta` should only be used for development  purposes, because it adds a bunch of information to every response,  which increases the server load and the size of the response.

#### 4. Get List Sorting

- Use the `orderby` parameter to specify which field should be used to order the results.

- Use the `sort` parameter to specify the direction of sorting. Allowed values **asc** and **desc**

```undefined
/api/employee?orderby=id&sort=desc
```

- All available fields, which can be used for sorting, are available in the `meta.route_info` parameter `orderby`:

```json
"meta": {
  "route_info": {
      "orderby": [
          "id",
          "name",
          "second_name",
          "surname",
          "gender",
          "country_id"
      ]
  }
}
```

#### 5. Get List Filtering

- In every request, filters can be defined to get a response, containing entries, which match the filtering condition.
  Use the `filter` parameter in the GET request URL.
  The `filter` must be defined as array, containing the field as a key, and the desired value as a value:

```undefined
/api/schedule?filters[employee_id]=6&filters[date]=2020-10-06
```

- Filters will be converted to a full match in the database request.

- Filers can also be used to do comparison filtering of the results, by appending an additional array with an operator to the filter URL parts:

```undefined
/api/schedule?filters[employee_id]=6&filters[date][gt]=2020-10-06
```

This will translate to `date > 2020-10-06`. Allowed operator values are:

- `not` - different than, `!=`
- `gt` - greater than, `>`
- `lt` - lesser than, `<`
- `gte` - greater than or equal, `>=`
- `lte` - lesser than or equal, `<=`
- `%%` - full match search, translates to `LIKE '%<value>%'`
- `*%` - right match search, translates to `LIKE '<value>%'`
- `%*` - left match search, translates to `LIKE '%<value>'`
- `in` - a list of values, separated by a comma (**,**), or one value. Works like SQL **IN** clause.

All other values of the operator array, will be ignored, and the filter will be considered as `equals`.

- All available fields, which can be used for filtering, are available in the `meta.route_info`parameter `filters`:

```json
"meta": {
  "route_info": {
      "filters": [
          "employee_id",
          "room_id",
          "type_of_cleaning",
          "date"
      ]
  }
}
```

#### 6. Get List Querying

- In some situations, for example, where there is a list of objects, it's very convenient for the user to search for a specific term, which is present in one or more fields of the object. For example, in a list of people, which have a `First Name`, `Second Name` and `Family Name`, it's useful to search for the phrase **Tom** in all of those fields. Use the `query` parameter to search through all of the fields, which support it in the object.

- The fields are listed in the `meta` array, under the key `query`. For example:

```json
"query": {
  "first_name": "%%",
  "second_name": "%%",
  "family_name": "%%"
},
```

The keys of the array are the names of the fields. The values are what type of match will be carried out:

- `%%` or `''` - the term **Tom** is contained anywhere in the fields. Translates to f

```mysql
`first_name` LIKE '%Tom%'
```

- `^%` or `%^` - the term **Tom** is at the beginning of the value. Translates to

```mysql
`first_name` LIKE 'Tom%'
```

- `$%` or `%$` - the term **Tom** is at the end of the value. Translates to

```mysql
`first_name` LIKE '%Tom'
```

- If the `query` parameter is added, it searches for the phrase in all of the available fields:

```undefined
/api/employees?query=Tom
```

Using this query, according to the `query` key in the `meta`, the following query will be carried out:

```mysql
SELECT * FROM `employees` WHERE `first_name` LIKE '%Tom%' OR `second_name` LIKE '%Tom%' OR `familty_name` LIKE '%Tom%'
```

#### 7. Get List Resolving

- Objects, which are related to other objects, have the possibility to be returned in the response, adding the full body of the related child object.

- Use the `resolve` parameter to define which objects should be added:

```undefined
/api/schedule?resolve[]=room
```

- For resolving objects, which are related, using a 3rd object, add a dash (**-**) in the related object name, to indicate indirect (through) relationship:

```
/api/schedule?resolve[]=room&resolve[]=room-room_type
```

- The `resolve` parameter also supports handling indexes in the request, for example:

```
/api/schedule?resolve[0]=room&resolve[1]=room-room_type
```

- All available resolvable objects are defined in the `resolve` parameter in the `meta.route_info`:

```json
"meta": {
    "route_info": {
        "resolve": [
            "room",
            "room-room_type"
        ]
    }
}
```

- Nested objects will be added in the body of every object in the response. Objects, nested through a second object, will also be added directly in the body of the requested object. For example, the response  of the request above should look like:

```json
{
  "id": 190,
  "employee_id": 6,
  "room_id": 28,
  "type_of_cleaning": "D",
  "date": "2020-10-05",
  "room": {
      "data": {
          "id": 28,
          "customer_id": 5,
          "room_type_id": 19,
          "room_inventory_template_id": 8,
          "name": "154",
          "floor": 3
      }
  },
  "room-room_type": {
      "data": {
          "id": 19,
          "customer_id": 5,
          "name": "room_types_4451C9D4CD"
      }
  }
}
```

#### 8. Get List Querying and Resolved Objects

- When using resolved objects, together with querying (using `query` keyword), the search will also include all query-able properties
  of the resolved objects as well. This possibility will be indicated in the `query` parameter in the `meta`,
  with the value `related`. For example, for work logs:

```json
"query": {
    "time_start": "%%",
    "employee": "related",
    "room": "related"
}
```

- For example, the request

```
/api/work-log?resolve[]=room&query=355
```

in addition with the `query` parameter in the `room` meta being

```json
"query": {
    "name": "%%",
    "floor": "%%"
},
```

will translate to:

```mysql
SELECT * FROM `work_log` LEFT JOIN `room` ON `work_log`.`room_id` = `room`.`id` WHERE `work_log`.`time_start` LIKE '%355%' OR `room`.`name` LIKE '%355%' OR `room`.`floor` LIKE '%355%'
```

#### 9. Get List Filtering by Resolved Objects Properties

- When using resolved objects, filtering by their properties is also possible.
  The syntax is the same, similar to filtering by properties of the requested object, by using the keyword `filter` in the GET URL.
  To explain, that this is a field of a related object, add the name of the related object, before the field name and concatenate them with a dot (`.`).
  For example:

```undefined
/api/work-log?filters[room.customer_id]=2&resolve[]=room
```

- Keep in mind, that filtering by the properties of a related object is only possible, when this object is resolved in the request.
  For example,

```undefined
/api/work-log?filters[room.customer_id]=2
```

will not work and the filter `room.customer_id` will be ignored.

#### 10. Showing Deleted Objects in Lists

- For models, which support soft deletes, sometimes it's necessary to list deleted objects as well. This can be done using two request parameters:

  - `with_deleted` - includes soft deleted objects in the list, for example

  ```
  /api/work-log?with_deleted=true
  ```

  - `only_deleted` - shows only soft deleted objects in the list

  ```
  /api/work-log?only_deleted=true
  ```

#### 11. Get List Aggregation

- In some cases, for making reports for example, some kind of aggregation of the response of a request is required.
- The `aggregete` option allows developers to request a specific aggregation of the results:

```undefined
/api/working-hours?aggregate[]=report
```

This will call a function, defined in the controller in the back end, which will prepare an array of aggregate data.

- The aggregations will be available in the `meta` part of the response, in an object, called `aggregation`:

```json
"meta": {
    "aggregate": {
        "report": {
        ...
        }
    }
}
```

For every `aggregate` parameter, an additional object will be available in the `meta.aggergate` object.

- All available aggregations are available in the `aggregate` parameter in the `meta.route_info`:

```json
"meta": {
    "route_info": {
        "aggregate": [
          "report"
        ]
    }
}
```

#### 12. Get a single object

- It's possible to get only one result of a resource, by specifying its id:

```undefined
/api/employee/3
```

- The response will contain only one object, encapsulated in the `data` object.

Commit message:

Improve docs - add info for slug

NetworkControllerGETRequests.md, after:

#### 1. Get List

- The URL is created from the name of the resource, for example `Employee`.

```undefined
/api/employee
```

- Every request, returns a JSON response, which is encapsulated in the parameter `data`:

```json
{
  "data": [
      {
          <object body>
      }
  ]
}
```

#### 2. Get List Pagination

- For setting the page, add the `page` parameter:

```undefined
/api/employee?page=2
```

- For setting how many results to display per a page, use the `limit` parameter. Default is 20 results per page.

```undefined
/api/employee?limit=20
```

- For some requests, it's more convenient to get all results at once. Use `limit=all` to disable pagination. Use with caution, it may increase response time and server load.

```undefined
/api/employee?limit=all
```

- For some special cases, for example, when using **aggregations** (see pt. 10), it's more convenient to completely remove the data in the response.
  Use `limit=empty` and the `data` object will be just an empty array (`[]`). No computations and transformations will be done.

```undefined
/api/employee?limit=empty
```

- Use the `pagination` parameter in the `meta` of every response, to help in the construction of paginated requests:

```json
"meta": {
  "pagination": {
      "total": 20,
      "count": 5,
      "per_page": 5,
      "current_page": 2,
      "total_pages": 4,
      "links": {
          "previous": "http://seodomains.docker/api/employee?page=1",
          "next": "http://seodomains.docker/api/employee?page=3"
      }
  }
}
```

#### 3. Get List Meta

- Using the parameter `showMeta` and setting it to **TRUE** or **1**, you can get useful information, about which parameters (and values) are allowed in the GET requests:

```
/api/employee?showMeta=1
```

- A parameter, `route_info` will be included in the `meta`.

- The allowed fields for `orderby`, `sort`,`limit`, `filters`, `query`, `resolve` and `aggregate` optional parameters are provided.

- If the model is slug-able, it will provide the value of the slug column in the `slug` parameter. Otherwise, `slug` will be **FALSE**.

- This parameter is strictly informative and can be used safely with any other optional parameter.

- The `showMeta` should only be used for development  purposes, because it adds a bunch of information to every response,  which increases the server load and the size of the response.

#### 4. Get List Sorting

- Use the `orderby` parameter to specify which field should be used to order the results.

- Use the `sort` parameter to specify the direction of sorting. Allowed values **asc** and **desc**

```undefined
/api/employee?orderby=id&sort=desc
```

- All available fields, which can be used for sorting, are available in the `meta.route_info` parameter `orderby`:

```json
"meta": {
  "route_info": {
      "orderby": [
          "id",
          "name",
          "second_name",
          "surname",
          "gender",
          "country_id"
      ]
  }
}
```

#### 5. Get List Filtering

- In every request, filters can be defined to get a response, containing entries, which match the filtering condition.
  Use the `filter` parameter in the GET request URL.
  The `filter` must be defined as array, containing the field as a key, and the desired value as a value:

```undefined
/api/schedule?filters[employee_id]=6&filters[date]=2020-10-06
```

- Filters will be converted to a full match in the database request.

- Filers can also be used to do comparison filtering of the results, by appending an additional array with an operator to the filter URL parts:

```undefined
/api/schedule?filters[employee_id]=6&filters[date][gt]=2020-10-06
```

This will translate to `date > 2020-10-06`. Allowed operator values are:

- `not` - different than, `!=`
- `gt` - greater than, `>`
- `lt` - lesser than, `<`
- `gte` - greater than or equal, `>=`
- `lte` - lesser than or equal, `<=`
- `%%` - full match search, translates to `LIKE '%<value>%'`
- `*%` - right match search, translates to `LIKE '<value>%'`
- `%*` - left match search, translates to `LIKE '%<value>'`
- `in` - a list of values, separated by a comma (**,**), or one value. Works like SQL **IN** clause.

All other values of the operator array, will be ignored, and the filter will be considered as `equals`.

- All available fields, which can be used for filtering, are available in the `meta.route_info`parameter `filters`:

```json
"meta": {
  "route_info": {
      "filters": [
          "employee_id",
          "room_id",
          "type_of_cleaning",
          "date"
      ]
  }
}
```

#### 6. Get List Querying

- In some situations, for example, where there is a list of objects, it's very convenient for the user to search for a specific term, which is present in one or more fields of the object. For example, in a list of people, which have a `First Name`, `Second Name` and `Family Name`, it's useful to search for the phrase **Tom** in all of those fields. Use the `query` parameter to search through all of the fields, which support it in the object.

- The fields are listed in the `meta` array, under the key `query`. For example:

```json
"query": {
  "first_name": "%%",
  "second_name": "%%",
  "family_name": "%%"
},
```

The keys of the array are the names of the fields. The values are what type of match will be carried out:

- `%%` or `''` - the term **Tom** is contained anywhere in the fields. Translates to f

```mysql
`first_name` LIKE '%Tom%'
```

- `^%` or `%^` - the term **Tom** is at the beginning of the value. Translates to

```mysql
`first_name` LIKE 'Tom%'
```

- `$%` or `%$` - the term **Tom** is at the end of the value. Translates to

```mysql
`first_name` LIKE '%Tom'
```

- If the `query` parameter is added, it searches for the phrase in all of the available fields:

```undefined
/api/employees?query=Tom
```

Using this query, according to the `query` key in the `meta`, the following query will be carried out:

```mysql
SELECT * FROM `employees` WHERE `first_name` LIKE '%Tom%' OR `second_name` LIKE '%Tom%' OR `familty_name` LIKE '%Tom%'
```

#### 7. Get List Resolving

- Objects, which are related to other objects, have the possibility to be returned in the response, adding the full body of the related child object.

- Use the `resolve` parameter to define which objects should be added:

```undefined
/api/schedule?resolve[]=room
```

- For resolving objects, which are related, using a 3rd object, add a dash (**-**) in the related object name, to indicate indirect (through) relationship:

```
/api/schedule?resolve[]=room&resolve[]=room-room_type
```

- The `resolve` parameter also supports handling indexes in the request, for example:

```
/api/schedule?resolve[0]=room&resolve[1]=room-room_type
```

- All available resolvable objects are defined in the `resolve` parameter in the `meta.route_info`:

```json
"meta": {
    "route_info": {
        "resolve": [
            "room",
            "room-room_type"
        ]
    }
}
```

- Nested objects will be added in the body of every object in the response. Objects, nested through a second object, will also be added directly in the body of the requested object. For example, the response  of the request above should look like:

```json
{
  "id": 190,
  "employee_id": 6,
  "room_id": 28,
  "type_of_cleaning": "D",
  "date": "2020-10-05",
  "room": {
      "data": {
          "id": 28,
          "customer_id": 5,
          "room_type_id": 19,
          "room_inventory_template_id": 8,
          "name": "154",
          "floor": 3
      }
  },
  "room-room_type": {
      "data": {
          "id": 19,
          "customer_id": 5,
          "name": "room_types_4451C9D4CD"
      }
  }
}
```

#### 8. Get List Querying and Resolved Objects

- When using resolved objects, together with querying (using `query` keyword), the search will also include all query-able properties
  of the resolved objects as well. This possibility will be indicated in the `query` parameter in the `meta`,
  with the value `related`. For example, for work logs:

```json
"query": {
    "time_start": "%%",
    "employee": "related",
    "room": "related"
}
```

- For example, the request

```
/api/work-log?resolve[]=room&query=355
```

in addition with the `query` parameter in the `room` meta being

```json
"query": {
    "name": "%%",
    "floor": "%%"
},
```

will translate to:

```mysql
SELECT * FROM `work_log` LEFT JOIN `room` ON `work_log`.`room_id` = `room`.`id` WHERE `work_log`.`time_start` LIKE '%355%' OR `room`.`name` LIKE '%355%' OR `room`.`floor` LIKE '%355%'
```

#### 9. Get List Filtering by Resolved Objects Properties

- When using resolved objects, filtering by their properties is also possible.
  The syntax is the same, similar to filtering by properties of the requested object, by using the keyword `filter` in the GET URL.
  To explain, that this is a field of a related object, add the name of the related object, before the field name and concatenate them with a dot (`.`).
  For example:

```undefined
/api/work-log?filters[room.customer_id]=2&resolve[]=room
```

- Keep in mind, that filtering by the properties of a related object is only possible, when this object is resolved in the request.
  For example,

```undefined
/api/work-log?filters[room.customer_id]=2
```

will not work and the filter `room.customer_id` will be ignored.

#### 10. Showing Deleted Objects in Lists

- For models, which support soft deletes, sometimes it's necessary to list deleted objects as well. This can be done using two request parameters:

  - `with_deleted` - includes soft deleted objects in the list, for example

  ```
  /api/work-log?with_deleted=true
  ```

  - `only_deleted` - shows only soft deleted objects in the list

  ```
  /api/work-log?only_deleted=true
  ```

#### 11. Get List Aggregation

- In some cases, for making reports for example, some kind of aggregation of the response of a request is required.
- The `aggregete` option allows developers to request a specific aggregation of the results:

```undefined
/api/working-hours?aggregate[]=report
```

This will call a function, defined in the controller in the back end, which will prepare an array of aggregate data.

- The aggregations will be available in the `meta` part of the response, in an object, called `aggregation`:

```json
"meta": {
    "aggregate": {
        "report": {
        ...
        }
    }
}
```

For every `aggregate` parameter, an additional object will be available in the `meta.aggergate` object.

- All available aggregations are available in the `aggregate` parameter in the `meta.route_info`:

```json
"meta": {
    "route_info": {
        "aggregate": [
          "report"
        ]
    }
}
```

#### 12. Get a single object

- It's possible to get only one result of a resource, by specifying its id:

```undefined
/api/employee/3
```

- The response will contain only one object, encapsulated in the `data` object.
